# What is Causing Motion?

NOTE: henceforth all the mathematical objects are treated as a language and properties are taken to be the truth, only the physical theorems are to be deduced. checkout [Math](/NaxBooks/Mathematics).

__POSTULATES__:
1. The Objects Studied in Physics are Physical.
2. Every Physical Objects Lies in $ R^3 $ Euclidean Space.
3. Every Observations are are sequential points on $ R^1 $ Line of Time $ t $; which is varying with the same definite rate for all observers.
4. An Observer Observes Objects just as Objects appears at that particular time $ t $.
5. Every Observations are relative to local Cartesian Space; origin of which lies at where the observer is.
6. A State of an Object is given by two types of associated varibles, a point on The line of time, and a point in Local Cartesian Space of an Observer.
7. All the Physical Functions from Time ($ R^1 $) to Space ($ R^3 $) are continuous.

**NOTE**: can these 7 postulates be reduced? i've not focused on that task for a reason; that it's not meant to have a completely rigorous axiomatic structure here, it's just to help my sister think, for an complete structure based axiomatic treatment checkout [KoHam](/KoHam)

__SciFact 1__:
> to study the real physical objects, we use bottom-up method, i.e we start doing analysis with the system having as few variable as possible. since temporal variable is important for all systems, we can't ignore it, and since there are 3 (Euclidean) Spatial variables, we first consider 1, then 2, and finally 3.

## 1D

__SciPic 1__:
> Imagine a world of creatures living in 1D, who can move only right and left, their bodies are linear, and are very thin, but can be long or short! but we'll only focus on point bodies of 1D.

__SciSym 1__:
> represent spatial variable by $\vec z(t)$, without time the position has no meaning, and therefore position must depend on time, position is a vector in a vector space embedded on local cartesian space as per POST 5.

since time t is varying with same definite rate for all observers (POST 3), from the observer point body is $|\vec z(t)|$ unit away (POST 5), this information of $\vec z(t)$ is with observer; if $\vec z(t)$ changes the observer will come to know it immidiately (POST 4), and now we've a system of observer (the temporal variable t) and 1D object (spatial variable $\vec z(t)$), therefore the state of this 1D body is the touple (t,z) (POST 6).

__SciTherm 1__:
> since one 1D can have only one $\vec z(t)$ for any particular t, $\vec z(t) = f(t)$ therefore is a function; which is "physical".

__SciTherm 2__:
> since $\vec z(t) = f(t)$ is a physical function (SciTherm 1), according to POST 7 $\vec z(t) = f(t)$ is continuous.

